So let's look at some performance.
So in our hypothetical example,
we now deploy our
website with some
performance analysis in it.
And we can produce some
charts based on that.
I can show you how we did that.
If we look at this log file.
Yours probably doesn't have
as many entries as mine.
But if you just reload Chrome a bunch more
times, you'll get you'll get more entries.
We can chart this pretty easily.
I have a document all set up for
you already.
If you look in the readme
of this repository,
there's a link out to both documents.
Both the performance worksheet
that we played with in part one.
As well as this example
performance dashboard that we're
going to look at next.
If you pop open the performance dashboard
and again, make a copy of this.
So that you can edit the numbers
here is some very simplified
reports based on your field
data that we captured.
This works through a dashboard and
a data sheet.
The data is just hate you took the CSV
contents of that log and you paste it in.
So we'll do that together.
I'm going to go into my perf.log.csv.
And I'm going to select it all and
copy it.
And then I'm gonna to go to
my performance worksheet.
I'm gonna delete the sample
data that's already in here.
I'm gonna paste it in
the stuff I just pulled in.
Now it might not properly
figure everything out for
you, and so you'll need to go to Data,
split text to columns.
So that's going to be the field
data that we pulled from our perf.
JS agent as we've loaded it here locally
playing, flipping back to the dashboard.
This will then Chart the data
that we were looking at.
So based on what you put in what you paste
into your data, here is your load times.
First contentful paints,
largest contentful paints,
kimito layout shifts,
and first input delays.
With them charted here below.
So being that we haven't made any changes.
What we're looking at right now is just
the natural variability that happens in
small datasets.
So we only have a few points
of data to work with.
We really need to get up into the hundreds
before like things start to make
sense here.
But it looks like we have
some normal levels of data.
Let's move back in to our slides and
our hypothetical.
So if we deploy this and
start gathering data for some days,
some weeks a month, whatever.
Here's some field data that we pulled in.
And there's a couple interesting
things in this data over time.
There's a couple of LCP issues here.
Where at least in these two different
times the LCP has spiked up
quite a bit higher than what
it would normally be at.
And here we had some sort of layout
shift issue that spiked that up
considerably higher.
Now in isolation, we don't know what
these mean, we know they got worse.
But we don't know that that's bad or
that that's anything to care about.
So we need to compare it
with real business data.
And that's where our,
the justification for our time and
our efforts are going to come into play.
So if we overlay our business analytics
that we captured before with our bounce
rate and our session time.
We can see a correlation here.
We can see that the stuff happened weird.
At the same points in both charts.
On the far left, we see that hey,
when CLS got a lot worse,
the session time fell and on the right.
We see that that happened the same way.
When CLS kind of freaked
out session time fell.
But also that when first contentful
paint got slower bounce rate went up.
Which kind of intuitively makes sense.
If it takes a long time for your page to
load, then the users are just gonna leave,
they're not gonna wait for it.
And so these kind of patterns in
the data teach us some things,
we can arrive at conclusions based on it.
And the first is that
commutative lot layout shift
is inversely correlated to session time.
As our layout shifts get worse,
the sessions are going to get shorter.
And that the largest contentful paint
is inversely correlated to bounce rate.
The time it takes to paint
our screen gets slower,
the more likely it's going to
be that our customers leave.
Now, it's important to remember
is that this is for our example.
This is based on this data that
I've showed you right now.
That correlation, is not universal and
it might not exist for
your customers, for your application.
It's important to look at
your performance data, and
correlate it against
your business metrics.
So that you can see what
if any correlations exist,
that you can use to drive your efforts.
To improve your data, because if you're
not focused on what the customers.
What the users are actually doing,
you don't know if you're
improving the right things.
So let's move on to
So there's a pretty simple rule
to how to improve performance.
This is general, whether you're
talking about application performance,
database performance, web performance.
There's really just one
thing you need to do.
You need to do fewer things.
You can't really do it faster,
but you can do fewer things.
And I mean that in every possible layer,
so
you can send fewer bytes,
you can send fewer documents.
You can send smaller documents,
you can have less overhead.
Ultimately, all that we
can do in any part of
web development is figuring
out a way to do things.
So that's it.
That's how I would do it.
The end let's go to the bar.
No, growing up.